Before we begin animating there are some housekeeping chores that I think we need to take care of here.
The first thing I'll do is go straight over to the animation screen lay out.
I'm just going to click here and go to animation and this will give me just kind of a nice screen play
out with the dope she the graph editor.
Of course you've got the timeline down here with blender as you know you can configure things any way
you want but I think this is a nice screen layout to begin with as we animate.
I've got this relationship line right here.
I don't think I want that I'm going to press the End key and let me scroll down to the display area
which is here and we can turn off relationship lines right here so that cleans that up a bit.
Now I'm going to begin with an idle cycle just the cycle of animation that runs when the game character
is doing nothing at all really.
And I'll probably do that between frames 1 and 40.
I'm going to begin with that and just see how that works.
However what I want to do is I want a key the default pose here on zero.
So I've got it on frame 1 here and just I'm going to scroll back to frame zero and I'll select one of
the controls and hit the key to select everything.
And now if I hit the I key on the keyboard I get the insert key frame menu and I can choose to insert
key frames for just location just rotation or all of them combined here and I'm just going to do that.
I'm going to key the location rotation and scale for everything here at frame zero.
Just so I have it open this up just a bit swing and see.
So now if I scroll down here you can see I've got a keyframe for every single thing on that on that
rig.
It's just something I like to do it.
It isn't absolutely mandatory but I like to be able to have that default pose available to me if I want
to come back and copy that because I'll be moving these animation cycles around on the timeline.
All right so I'll go back to frame one here.
There we go.
And now that I've key framed everything I can turn on Otto keyframe here.
And what that will do is.
Now every time I move anything it will automatically create a keyframe for me on that frame for it to
work.
You need to keyframe something first.
Now some of these controls I'm really not going to need.
Like I've already rotated and placed the fingers around the objects so I'm not going to be using these
controls any more.
So I'd like to kind of hide them away.
I think they're kind of kind of distracting if I'm going to select this control through the shield.
I've got all this here and I don't want that.
So if I select one of these controls Now let me open this up a bit go to my armature panel you can see
that with this control selected this layer is highlighted.
So if I shift click this that turns that layer off and hides those objects let me do the same thing
with the finger controls here if I select that one.
You can see there it is.
And if I shift click that that hides that away as well.
All right.
So now if I come over here and take a look at it through the shield my hand controls don't clutter up
the viewport.
All right.
Everything else I think I will probably need.
Now I said I'd begin with frames 1 through 40.
So let's go ahead and type in 40 here to the end.
And now we can middle mouse button click and drag and frame this up.
I can scroll the mouse wheel and zoom in a bit.
So now I can just see frames 1 to 40.
Now this may change I'm not sure if this is exactly what I'll be using but that's OK.
Look how I can select the character and I don't want to do that.
I want to only be able to select the control object for the rig.
So I'm going to select the character I'll hover over the outliner and press the period key on the numpad
and that zooms in to my selected object.
And now I want to turn off the select ability here of my character and I want to do the same thing for
the eyes for the hammer and the shield so that when I select things over here I don't accidentally select
the object or the character I only select the control rig.
All right.
I think that's going to help.
So the idol I'm going to select this control object and let's move it down just a little bit so he kind
of takes the weight like this.
I kind of want to have the hand controls come down as well so I'll shift select those and bring those
down just a bit like that.
There we go.
I want to make sure his center of gravity is over his feet.
So I'll go to my side view here and just make sure that it's right over those feet.
I don't want him leaning forward too much.
His hands don't need to be that far out and his feet could be a little bit more out toward the shoulders
a bit I think.
And I'll move these knees out of hair like that
and I'll bring these in as and rotate them a bit and I'm just hitting G and moving them around a bit
and now I need to counter key that hand as you recall.
So I'll just bring that out like that.
Maybe a move that head forward a little bit.
I'm in the middle mouse button click and drag over here and I can see that my transformation orientation
is in global I'm going to change that to local and switch to rotation here.
Something like this.
Is it a little bit more angry maybe maybe move the elbows out just a hair.
See how that works.
And maybe I'll also make his feet not quite as in line with each other maybe move one back a little
bit and move one forward just a hair and I could also even rotate these so they're out just a little
bit like that something like that.
So going to go ahead and key everything here at this key frame so select one and hit the key to select
everything and once again I'm going to hit and key the location rotation and scale.
I'm not going to do that every time but I'm going to go ahead and do that at the first frame here.
All right.
So now he's going to need to stand there and breathe a little bit.
And I'm not sure exactly how long that's going to be.
I'm going to begin with 12 frames now.
We're working with 24 frames a second here.
I think it's easier to calculate the fractions of a second in 24 frames a second but so for this frame
let's kind of have that chest control kind of rotate back as if he's breathing a bit.
Let's see what happens if I just rotate this back a bit you kind of breathes a little bit like that.
So now if I go back you can see he's kind of
breathing like that and maybe let's take that chest keyframe which is right here in the dope sheet and
we can duplicate this and move it forward to say frame 24 Let's try that.
I'm going to press shift D and move the mouse and I'm going to move this up to around frame 24 like
that.
Now let's hit play and see what happens.
Seems like a little bit too quick.
I'm just trying to find the timing here.
So if I select that keyframe on the dope sheet for the chest and also shift select this one and hit
the G key and move these forward a bit maybe I'll go to 20 and 40 Let's go in and try that.
And we go back to the beginning and hit play
that feels a little better to me.
And I'm also watching over here I've got this particular screen set up behind him as if we're seeing
him in the game.
All right let's try that.
I could even I could even go a little bit further couldn't I.
Let me try that.
I'm going to go to frame sixty four for the range of my animation here.
And so now let me zoom out a bit here.
So now let's take these.
I'm going to take this one and this one and I'm going to move it forward to about 30.
And this one forward to about 60.
Let's see what happens here just the timing of it.
I don't know that feels a little better to me.
What do you think.
Let's give it a try in the next video.
We'll continue with the idle animation and we'll talk more about the graph editor in tangents.